+++
title = 'MIGA'
date = 2024-01-23T11:26:51Z
draft = false
tags = ["Beginner", "Tutorial", "WebDev"] 
+++
# Make Internet Great Again!
---
## Parable of Two Webs
Once upon a time in a digital land, there were two World Wide Webs, each unique and reflecting the lives of those who wandered through them.

In the first web, there lived a person named Alex. Alex’s web was a vibrant and colourful place, filled with the wonders of knowledge and creativity. This web was a mirror of Alex’s life – organized, curious, and always seeking to learn. Every click in this web led Alex to new discoveries, from the depths of history to the edges of the universe. In Alex’s web, the pages were like magical books in a grand library, each offering wisdom and sparking imagination. Alex would spend hours reading articles, mastering skills, and exploring hobbies, all while sipping warm tea by the glow of the computer screen.

Then there was Jamie’s web, a different world entirely. For you see Jamie was a *smoker*, and their web was clouded with distractions and short-lived pleasures. Instead of books and knowledge, Jamie’s web was filled with endless social media feeds, where the scroll never stopped, and the content was as fleeting as smoke from a cigarette. In Jamie’s web, quick dopamine fixes were the norm, and meaningful content was lost in a haze. The pages Jamie visited were like a maze, thoughts broken as the screen of the smartphone that materialised them, leading further away from real connections and introspection.

One day Alex found the [***Amulet of Yendor***](https://nethackwiki.com/wiki/Amulet_of_Yendor) and transcended the physical plane of existence. Jamie however got addicted to a bunch of prescription drugs and is currently undergoing treatment for clinical anxiety and depression, best of luck to Jamie.

fin.
## Intro
Intriguing is it not, how two people can have such vastly different experiences, traversing the same medium. I would love to go into detail about how **exactly**  messed up the internet is today, but I would rather make my first post informative. Besides I am planning to do a whole series on the history of the internet, the matter of social media is better addressed there.

Today, I would like to introduce you to the colourful world of blogging, and how you can get you very own blog going, absolutely **free of charge** using GitHub and Hugo. But first a little primer on the holy trinity of the internet - **BBS, IRC,** and **RSS.** The focus of this article will mainly be on the latter and how you can break the cycle of endless scroll ***today!*** 
### Holy Trinity
Before the social media sites took over, and became *de facto* standard of internet communication, there were **B**ulletin **B**oard **S**ysytems. Functionally they served the same purpose as the modern social networks, all be it they have more in common with forums than with modern social media. The main limitation of BBS was the number of clients that could connect at a time. The problem of concurrency was addressed by the **I**nternet **R**elay **C**hats, which were precursors to discord servers. 

At this point people are able to engage in discourse, with no limitations, the problem that arises now is how do you get your new internet friends up to speed with your life. Well it's simple, you keep a log. Personal we**b-log** is truly the crown jewel of the internet, empowering individual thinkers to present to the collective their little pieces of the web. This is when true revolution took place, personal revolution, everyone who was writing their blog posts had no side agenda except to teach the visitors about their passion. Creating constructive content for a personal blog, requires a healthy bit of introspection, this encourages one to ponder *"Is this what I want the world to see?"*. This elevated the quality of content drastically, but now you need a way to keep track of all of these interesting people and their blogs. The **R**ich **S**ite **S**ummary was born. One of the uses of RSS is to alleviate the reader of the tedious task of constantly checking blogs for new posts, instead you can just subscribe to blogs, and an RSS client would organise them into nice continues feed. One of the most notable news aggregators is the beloved [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/). More on RSS below.

# Technical part
---
Our blog will be powered by `hugo` and hosted via GitHub Pages, we will need to create two repositories, one will be used for hosting the public parts of the website, that are displayed to the public (duh). The other one will act as a configuration repo. This is good practice, now we have a safety mechanism to make sure that unfinished work doesn't get published before it is ready. 
  - Create an **empty** repository named `YOUR-USERNAME-HERE.github.io` This will be our public repository.
  - Create another repository, call it whatever you like, this is our config repo.

## Installation 
You may need to use privilege escalation tools depending on your configuration.

{{< tabs tabTotal="3" >}} 

{{% tab tabName="Arch" %}}

    pacman -S hugo
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab tabName="Darwin" %}}
Please note you need to install [`brew`](https://brew.sh/) beforehand.
  
    brew install hugo
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab tabName="Debian" %}}
  
    apt-get install hugo
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

After installation copy the config repository from GitHub to the local machine.

*Please note that we are using ssh protocol when working with* `git`. *The ssh key needs to be set up prior to that, if this doesn't ring a bell, check [this](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) out*.

{{< highlight bash >}}
git clone git@github.com:YOUR-USERNAME-HERE/NAME-OF-THE-CONFIG-REPO-HERE.git 
{{< /highlight >}}

  ### Minimal config
Great! Now we can get `hugo` to populate the repository with all the necessary files.

{{< highlight text >}}
hugo new site -f NAME-OF-THE-CONFIG-REPO-HERE
{{< /highlight >}}

Now we have initiated our `hugo` site inside of our remote repository.

{{< tabs tabTotal="4" >}}
{{% tab tabName="Instructions" %}}
We will now take the following steps:

 1. Go to the project directory.
 2. List the files, check that everything is in order.
 3. Add the public repository as a submodule.

This is done to make the bare bones of `hugo` website.
{{% /tab %}}

{{< tab tabName="Step 1" >}}
Go to the project directory.
{{< highlight text >}}
cd ./NAME-OF-THE-CONFIG-REPO-HERE
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{% tab tabName="Step 2" %}}
List the files, check that everything is in order.

    ls -a .

You should find the following files:
    
    ├── archetypes
    │   └── default.md
    ├── assets
    ├── content
    ├── data
    ├── hugo.toml
    ├── i18n
    ├── layouts
    ├── static
    └── themes

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab tabName="Step 3" %}}
Add the public repository as a submodule.

Okay, this is a step where this guide deviates from the official [Quick start](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/).

    git submodule add git@github.com:YOUR-USERNAME-HERE/YOUR-USERNAME-HERE.github.io.git public

 This command adds the public repo as a dependency, this way all the files that make up a website are **committed separately**.

Main advantages are:

 - **No accidental deployment** - You will never publish substandard work again, having an extra fail-safe mechanism.
 - **Easier development** - We can create new development branches to test new functionality, and upgrade the website seamlessly once the feature is ready. 

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

  ### Theme
Awesome, we are now going to add a theme to our site, check out [this](https://themes.gohugo.io/) awesome collection of themes.

{{< highlight text >}}
git submodule add https://github.com/GITHUB_USERNAME/THEME_REPO_NAME.git themes/THEME-NAME
{{< /highlight >}}

You need to change a few lines in `hugo.toml` configuration file.

{{< tabs tabTotal="2" >}}
{{< tab tabName="baseURL" >}}

{{< highlight text >}}
baseURL = 'https://YOUR-USERNAME-HERE.github.io/'
{{< /highlight >}}
This will make sure that the website is mapped to your subdomain.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab tabName="theme" %}}

    theme = 'THEME-NAME'
Appending this will tell `hugo` which theme you want to use.
{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}
  ### Content
Your blog is almost ready, you just need to add some of that juicy knowledge hidden in that noggin of yours!

The way `hugo` functions, is it takes in Markdown `.md` and renders it into HTML `.html`
So you can concentrate on producing quality work, instead of going through the tedious process of navigating web UIs that some CMS offer.

    hugo new content about/about.md

This will produce an `about/` page, in the `content/` directory and copy the `archetypes/default.md` template to `about.md`.
All that is left to do now, is just show the internet what you are all about!

***WARNING*** Do note that you may need to further populate the `hugo.toml` before you can deploy, consult the documentation for your theme.

  ### Deployment
So far so good, but all the changes we have done were local so far. Time to go public!

{{< tabs tabTotal="4" >}}
{{% tab tabName="Instructions" %}}
We will now take the following steps:

 1. "*Compile*" the project.
 2. Check that everything renders properly.
 3. Synch files with GitHub.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab tabName="Step 1" %}}
"*Compile*" the project.
    
    hugo
{{% /tab %}}
This step translates our `.md` filesj
{{% tab tabName="Step 2" %}}
Check that everything renders properly.

    hugo server
This will serve our website on the following address `http://localhost:1313`.
Follow the URL and feast upon the fruits of your work!
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab tabName="Step 3" %}}
Synch files with GitHub. Since we have two repositories we will need 
Do steps **1 & 2** from within the `public/` directory (`cd public`), and all three steps from the root of the configuration repository (`cd ..`).

1. add:

        git add .
2. commit 

        git commit -m "HACK_THE_PLANET"
3. push
  
       git push -u origin main --recurse-submodules=on-demand

***IMPORTANT*** This flag `--recurse-submodules=on-demand` pushes all of the project's submodules simultaneously.

Last but not least,

Let's enable GitHub Pages for our repository.
Navigate to webpage of your public repository, go to **Settings**, in the left hand menu, under **Code and automation**  choose **Pages**.
Set the **Branch** to **main** and the folder to `/` (root).
Save it, and wait for a minute to see your weblog appear, at `https://YOUR-USERNAME-HERE.github.io`

***BOOM!*** You my friend are now a proud owner of a prime peace of internet real estate. 

The world is your *Oyster*!

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

---
  ## Outro
Congratulations, you have made it this far! Give yourself a pat on the back, you have just done something the majority of people wouldn't bother with. You have created a blog, this is the most valuable type of social media one can posses. To make sure that you don't miss any of my other publications, follow my [RSS](https://vladisl0th.github.io/blog/index.xml) feed, you can read up on the options of how you can set one up for your own blog [here](https://makewithhugo.com/add-an-rss-feed/). 

Here are some RSS clients for you mobile devices:
  - [Android](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.nononsenseapps.feeder/)
  - [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/netnewswire-rss-reader/id1480640210)

### Value Time 

Your time here is limited and how you invest it is up to you, if you choose to proactively take control of what type of information you consume, you have a shot at improving the quality of life and developing skills that make you happy. That is the only option really, if you just settle for the mainstream information bubble, well you are in for a rather sad scenario.
The biggest problem with modern social media like TikTok isn't the loss of attention spans, or even the fact that governments use it to push their own agenda onto populous.
At the end of the day we need governments, right? The kids of tomorrow may be interacting with the world in fundamentally different ways, the ability to focus may be trumped by the ability to multitask.

***Mediocrity*** - the single greatest tragedy of the modern internet. People no longer try to proactively use the internet in order to better themselves and share valuable information. We have settled for extremly processed and diluted information, that eradicates creativity and forces you to obey standards and trends. We have created a hyperbolized toxic environment filled with abstract happiness and beauty images, that are simply **fake**. Nonetheless manage to poison and distort our own sense of self-worth, making us forget our true passions and desires and settle for the nearest available option that the algorithms suggest. 

All it takes is for one person to rebel and tell his friends and family about an alternate path, this way we can start bursting their information bubbles. Freeing ourselves from this trance our society seems to be so mesmerized by, is no simple task, but a one worth pursuing. 

